[Docs] rsz documentation (#3701)
The-OpenROAD-Project/OpenROAD: src/rsz/README.md

## Commands

```{note}
- Parameters in square brackets `[-param param]` are optional.
- Parameters without square brackets `-param2 param2` are required.
```

### Set Wire RC

The `set_wire_rc` command sets the resistance and capacitance used to estimate
delay of routing wires.  Separate values can be specified for clock and data
nets with the `-signal` and `-clock` flags. Without either `-signal` or
`-clock` the resistance and capacitance for clocks and data nets are set.
Use `-layer` or `-resistance` and `-capacitance`.  If `-layer` is used,
the LEF technology resistance and area/edge capacitance values for the
layer are used for a default width wire on the layer.  

```tcl
set_wire_rc 
    [-clock] 
    [-signal]
    [-layer layer_name]
    [-resistance res]
    [-capacitance cap]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-clock` | enable setting of RC for clock nets |
| `-signal` | enable setting of RC for signal nets | 
| `-layer` | if used, the LEF default RC values are used. |

> | `-resistance` | resistance per unit length, units are from the first Liberty file read, usually in the form of $\frac{resistanceUnit}{distanceUnit}$. Usually kΩ/µm. |

Reviewer: Where is capacitance?

### Set Layer RC

The `set_layer_rc` command can be used to set the resistance and capacitance
for a layer or via. This is useful if these values are missing from the LEF file,
or to override the values in the LEF.

```tcl
set_layer_rc 
    [-layer layer]
    [-via via_layer]
    [-capacitance cap]

>     [-resistance res]

Reviewer: Might as well order it resistance then capacitance to match order of `set_wire_rc`

    [-corner corner]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-layer` | select layer name |
| `-via` | select via layer name. note that via resistance is per cut/via, not area based |
| `-capacitance` | capacitance per unit length, same convention as `set_wire_rc` |

> | `-resistance` | resistance per unit length, same convention as `set_wire-rc` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `-resistance` | resistance per unit length, same convention as `set_wire_rc` |
```

Reviewer: Also same note about ordering

## Commands

```{note}
- Parameters in square brackets `[-param param]` are optional.
- Parameters without square brackets `-param2 param2` are required.
```

### Set Wire RC

The `set_wire_rc` command sets the resistance and capacitance used to estimate
delay of routing wires.  Separate values can be specified for clock and data
nets with the `-signal` and `-clock` flags. Without either `-signal` or
`-clock` the resistance and capacitance for clocks and data nets are set.

```tcl
set_wire_rc 
    [-clock] 
    [-signal]
    [-layer layer_name]

or 
set_wire_rc
    [-resistance res]
    [-capacitance cap]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-clock` | Enable setting of RC for clock nets. |
| `-signal` | Enable setting of RC for signal nets. | 

> | `-layer` | If `-layer` is used, the LEF technology resistance and area/edge capacitance values for the layer are used for a default width wire on the layer. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-layer` | Use the LEF technology resistance and area/edge capacitance values for the layer. This is used for a default width wire on the layer. |
```

| `-resistance` | Resistance per unit length, units are from the first Liberty file read, usually in the form of $\frac{resistanceUnit}{distanceUnit}$. Usually kΩ/µm. |
| `-capacitance` | Capacitance per unit length, units are from the first Liberty file read, usually in the form of $\frac{capacitanceUnit}{distanceUnit}$. Usually pF/µm. |

### Set Layer RC

The `set_layer_rc` command can be used to set the resistance and capacitance
for a layer or via. This is useful if these values are missing from the LEF file,
or to override the values in the LEF.

```tcl
set_layer_rc 
    [-layer layer]
    [-via via_layer]
    [-resistance res]
    [-capacitance cap]
    [-corner corner]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |

> | `-layer` | Set **routing** layer name to modify. |
> | `-via` | Select via layer name. note that via resistance is per cut/via, not area based. |
> | `-resistance` | Resistance per unit length, same convention as `set_wire_rc`. |
> | `-capacitance` | Capacitance per unit length, same convention as `set_wire_rc`. |
> | `-corner` | Process corner to use. |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-layer` | Set layer name to modify. Note that the layer must be a routing layer. |
| `-via` | Select via layer name. Note that via resistance is per cut/via, not area-based. |
| `-resistance` | Resistance per unit length, same convention as `set_wire_rc`. |
| `-capacitance` | Capacitance per unit length, same convention as `set_wire_rc`. |
| `-corner` | Process corner to use. |
```

### Remove Buffers

Use the `remove_buffers` command to remove buffers inserted by synthesis. This
step is recommended before using `repair_design` so that there is more flexibility
in buffering nets. 

```tcl
remove_buffers
```

### Repair Design

The `repair_design` command inserts buffers on nets to repair max slew, max
capacitance and max fanout violations, and on long wires to reduce RC delay in
the wire. It also resizes gates to normalize slews.  Use `estimate_parasitics
-placement` before `repair_design` to estimate parasitics considered
during repair. Placement-based parasitics cannot accurately predict
routed parasitics, so a margin can be used to "over-repair" the design
to compensate. 

```tcl
repair_design 
    [-max_wire_length max_length]
    [-slew_margin slew_margin]
    [-cap_margin cap_margin]
    [-max_utilization util]
    [-verbose]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-max_wire_length` | Maximum length of wires (in microns), defaults to a value that minimizes the wire delay for the wire RC values specified by `set_wire_rc`. |
| `-slew_margin` | Add a slew margin (0-100, integer). |

> | `-cap_margin` | Add a capactitance margin (0-100, integer). |

Reviewer 2: Default and range formatting.

| `-verbose` | Enable verbose logging of the repair progress. |

### Repair Clock Nets

The `clock_tree_synthesis` command inserts a clock tree in the design
but may leave a long wire from the clock input pin to the clock tree
root buffer. The `repair_clock_nets` command inserts buffers in the
wire from the clock input pin to the clock root buffer.

```tcl
repair_clock_nets 
    [-max_wire_length max_wire_length]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-max_wire_length` | Maximum length of wires (in microns), defaults to a value that minimizes the wire delay for the wire RC values specified by `set_wire_rc`. |

### Repair Clock Inverters

```tcl
repair_clock_inverters
```

### Report Design Area

The `report_design_area` command reports the area of the design's components
and the utilization.

```tcl
report_design_area
```

### Report Floating Nets

The `report_floating_nets` command reports nets with only one pin connection.

```tcl
report_floating_nets 
    [-verbose]
```

#### Options

| Switch Name | Description |
| ----- | ----- |
| `-verbose` | Print the net names. |

> ### Useful developer functions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Useful Developer Commands
```

If you are a developer, you might find these useful. More details can be found in the [source file](./src/Resizer.cc) or the [swig file](./src/Resizer.i).

```tcl
# repair setup pin 

> repair_setup_pin end_pin 

Reviewer 2: Table

## Regression tests

> There are a set of regression tests in `/test`. For more information, refer to this [section](../../README.md#regression-tests). 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are a set of regression tests in `./test`. For more information, refer to this [section](../../README.md#regression-tests). 
```
